# Fake_news_detection
 Social media interaction especially the news spreading around the network is a great source of information nowadays. Social media is a platform to express one’s views and opinions freely and has made communication easier than it was before. From one’s perspective its negligible exertion, straightforward access, and quick dispersing of information that lead people to look out and eat up news from internet-based life. This also opens up an opportunity for people to spread fake news intentionally with the help of web-based social networking sites. The fundamental objective of fake news sites is to influence the popular belief on specific issues. The ease of access to a variety of news sources on the web also brings the problem of people being exposed to fake news and possibly believing such news, which can bring about tremendous effects on the society. This makes it important for us to detect and flag such content on social media and other news providing websites. This paper aims at investigating the principles, methodologies and algorithms for detecting fake news articles from online social networks and evaluating the corresponding performance. We have discussed approaches to detection of fake news using only the features of the text of the news, without using any other related meta-data. Our aim is to find a reliable and accurate model that classifies a given news article as either fake or true. In this project, we have used five different classification models that are Naïve Bayes’ Classifier, Random Forest Classifier, Logistic Regression Classifier, Linear SVM Classifier and Stochastic Gradient Descent Classifier. We have selected the best performing Classifier that is Logistic Regression for fake news detection on the basis of Accuracy and F1 Score. During Stage II, we have further focused on two classification models Logistic Regression Classifier and Multinomial Naïve Bayes’ Classifier. We have doubled the size of our dataset and with further enhancements, we achieved an accuracy of 98%. At last, we have deployed our prediction model into a client-based output window to predict the truthfulness of any news.
